DSO National Laboratories Commemorates 50 Years of Defence Science and Technology

Singapore, 14 October 2022 – Prime Minister, Lee Hsien Loong graced DSO’s Golden Jubilee Dinner as its Guest-of-Honour at Shangri-La Hotel today. The event marks DSO’s 50-year journey in defence science and technology, and the relentless pursuit of its critical mission in developing technological surprises to enhance Singapore’s defence and national security capabilities. Prime Minister Lee and guests toured a special exhibition which unveiled never-been-seen archived documents, artefacts and photos.

In his keynote address, PM Lee said, “I am very happy that DSO is celebrating its Golden Jubilee. You have delivered many generations of impressive capabilities to the SAF, and now it is up to the current and future generations of DSO scientists to drive defence R&D for many years to come. And I am confident that you will continue to surprise us, as well as others, and provide the technology edge for our nation’s defence.”

As part of its Golden Jubilee celebrations, DSO also launched its DSO50 commemorative website, titled, “The Relentless Pursuit.” The website aims to provide an interactive and immersive experience in discovering the DSO story and spirit. Comprising six chapters, the website features interviews with past and present leaders, as well as stories of DSO’s capability build-up in key defence science and technology areas.

 

###

 

About DSO National Laboratories

DSO National Laboratories (DSO) is Singapore’s national defence research and development organisation. For the past 5 decades, DSO has been undertaking indigenous development of advanced defence and weapon systems that provide the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF) with the superior technological edge in the battlefield. While its primary focus is to support the SAF, DSO also extends its defence R&D capabilities to support homeland security.

 

With more than 1,600 research scientists and engineers, DSO investigates emerging technologies, matures promising ones and integrates them into innovative system concepts to meet Singapore’s defence and security needs. For more information, please visit www.dso.org.sg